# Megan-project
Class project data for FISH 546 winter 2021

## Data courtesy of Chris Monson (UW) and Giles Goetz (NOAA)
This experiment was done to see the effects of two steroids on the coho salmon ovary at a particular developmental stage that is roughly analogous to mammalian puberty. There are a lot of changes in the structure of the ovary around this time, and we had evidence that androgen steroids, which are commonly thought of as male specific, played a role in promoting growth. Estrogens also appear to promote growth, but in different ways. So we were interested to see what effects these steroids would have on transcription at this time, and if there were major differences between the steroids. We implanted an estrogen steroid (17-beta estradiol or E2) or an androgen steroid (11-ketotestosterone or 11-KT) into the fish and then collected the ovary after 7 days to see what transcriptional changes occurred relative to a control implant (without steroids). I should say that the ovaries from the fish that we got these samples from all looked pretty similar morphologically, but our preliminary data suggests that it takes 10 to 20 days to see a phenotype change with the steroids. We were looking for early transcriptional effects that would lead to the phenotype that we observed in previous studies. mRNA was isolated from the ovarian tissue of three fish per treatment and library prep was done with the illumina truseq stranded mRNA kit, then sequenced on the illumina HiSeq platform, 150 bp paired end reads. The samples are labelled 17104-02RT-01-#(7-15). Numbers 7-9 correspond to the controls, 10-12 are the E2 treatment, and 13-15 are the 11-KT treatment. During sequencing the samples were run in duplicate (in two lanes) and paired end which means there are two reads (R1 and R2). So for each sample you will see something like _S15_L002_R1_001.fastq.gz after the sample number. L002 or L003 or whatnot corresponds to the lane (each sample will have two files in two lanes - the duplicates) that the mRNA was sequenced in. The R1 or R2 are the read ends. Each mRNA fragment was sequenced from both ends, thus the paired end sequencing. So, in total 4 files per sample, duplicates of paired end reads. There is also going to be some sequence data in there that is from the adapters that were used in library prep. The sequences of those are R1 : AGATCGGAAGAGCACACGTCTGAACTCCAGTCA and R2: AGATCGGAAGAGCGTCGTGTAGGGAAAGAGTGT. 

###### Data was transferred to ostrich ssh from noaa servers and then transfered from ostrich to a local directory

Oncorhynchus_kisutch.Okis_V2.ncrna.fa.gz comes from [ensemble reference trasnscriptom for *Onocorhynchus kisutch*](ftp://ftp.ensembl.org/pub/release-102/fasta/oncorhynchus_kisutch/ncrna/)
